Mohamad Shoumar
Team Lead – Algorithmic Trader

Beirut, Beirut Governorate
+96181811614

User-focused Team Lead with 3 years of experience in back end and algorithmic trading systems.&nbsp;
Currently leading a team of 5 engineers, driving sprint planning, code reviews, and enforcing a strict testing culture to ship fast while maintaining quality.
Skilled in Python, FastAPI, AWS, system design, and trading systems.



PERSONAL INFORMATION
  Address: , Beirut, Beirut Governorate, 
  Nationality: 
  Driving License: 
  Hobbies: 

SKILLS
  ★★★★★ Python
  ★★★★★ FastAPI
  ★★★★★ AWS
  ★★★★★ React
  ★★★★★ Trading Systems
  ★★★★★ Git
  ★★★★★ Postgres

WORK EXPERIENCE
  * September 2025 – Present
    Team Lead – Algorithmic Trader at CoinQuant, Abu Dhabi
      
  Architect scalable backtesting system on AWS Lambda, supporting 800+ concurrent backtests with zero production failures.



  Lead development of multi position scaling feature, enabling advanced position sizing strategies.



  Design and implement slippage model to improve backtest realism and trading cost accuracy.


  * August 2024 – August 2025
    Backend Developer at CoinQuant, Abu Dhabi
      
  Improved the microservices packaging system by leading the migration from Bazel to Poetry, simplifying dependency management and builds.



  Established a local development workflow, improving developer experience and reducing setup and iteration time.


  * June 2023 – July 2024
    Full Stack Developer at CoinQuant, Abu Dhabi
      
  Developed and deployed a mobile application using React Native and Firebase.



  Built user interface for backtesting platform from scratch.



  Implemented features and internal tools to enhance product functionality.



  Designed REST APIs to support frontend integration.



EDUCATION
  * November 2022 – May 2023
    Software Engineering Factory,  Full Stack Software Engineering Bootcamp

    
  Completed the boot camp as a Star Developer with a Full stack web app. Github Repo

  * 2018 – 2021
    American University of Beirut,  Psychology

